and just like that you clicked see how i
just told you not to do something
and you're all hooked sure you did it
out of curiosity and sabotage
but that's exactly the point i made you
do what i wanted
just by making you think i didn't want
you to
that's just one of the many mind games
other people and even your own brain
plays on you let's say it's the weekend
you're hanging with some friends at the
lake one of them suggests
you jump off that cliff into the water
you refuse
because i mean it looks pretty shallow
why would you risk getting hurt or
getting all wet
on a chilly fall day but the kid starts
mocking you
telling you you chickened out chances
are
you'll jump even though you don't want
to
why every manipulator targets a very
precious part of you
your emotions when you think with your
brain you make rational
solid choices but manipulators don't
want you to do that
they want to shut down your mind and
make you stop thinking rationally
then you're driven by emotions that push
you to do things you'd normally never do
if you don't want to get caught in this
trap make sure you stop
and think what's in it for me do i
really need it
another way of manipulating is making
you believe that you need
something to be happy it's literally in
every ad you see
you will be popular if you use this face
cream
people will like you if you buy this
perfume
you'll be the coolest guy in school if
you have these sneakers
so you go out and spend because you want
to be pretty and cool
and make people like you but sometimes
it's not so obvious you know that girl
on instagram that lives the good life
and constantly posts about it
she has the perfect boyfriend who always
buys her flowers
she goes to vip restaurants she has the
best jewelry the latest cell phone
she somehow travels all the time and
posts amazing photos
we all follow at least one person like
that right
you think she's cool and happy maybe you
can be like that
if you buy all the stuff she has then
you'll definitely be happy
not true these people just want likes
views and comments they need you to like
their life
do you think they're really happy if
they need someone's approval
don't buy the latest cell phone just
because everyone on instagram has it
make your own choices so about that
making your own choices can be a little
bit tricky sometimes you can't even
trust yourself
your own brain plays tricks on you it's
called
confirmation bias it means that we agree
with what we already believe
um what for example
this is ben he really loves dogs and he
thinks that they're way better than cats
they're even good for your health he
found a study that proved it
having a dog is better than having a cat
sure there's another study that says
that cats are better than dogs but he
doesn't care
then there are hundreds of studies that
prove that cats and dogs are equally
good
but he doesn't care about that either he
found one study that proved his position
and that's good enough for him this
happens all the time with controversial
topics
if we don't like someone we only notice
bad things about them and ignore
all the good uh see i was right about
him
but if we like someone we only notice
good things
and ignore all the bad stuff you might
not even realize you're doing it
just relax and try to see the big
picture maybe that guy's not so bad
after all
ready to test your skills let's put you
in a couple of situations
and see if you get manipulated easily
your friend has some tickets to a
concert
but his grandma's sick and he wants to
spend time with her
so he can't go you're his best friend
so you're the first person he calls he
offers you the tickets for free
the thing is you don't really like the
band
do you take the tickets and go you
probably really want to accept the
tickets
but do you want to go because you think
you'll have a good time
or just because they're free if you
chose the second one
you're getting manipulated you're about
to waste your time and energy
for something you don't even want
restaurants offer free food
and people spend hours in line to get it
even if they're not hungry
or have the money to buy it without
waiting if you're about to sign up for
some free stuff
like tickets food or giveaways ask
yourself
one question would you pay a dollar for
it if not
then it's not worth it okay
another scenario would you rather be
rich
and unhappy or poor but happy
take some time to think about your
priorities you can even pause the video
if you want
okay made your choice but did you ask
yourself this
why do i even need to choose how about
both
rich and happy someone gives you a
choice
so you start thinking there's no other
options but you can't have
everything but sometimes you really can
imagine you want to subscribe to a
magazine
the online version costs 20 the print
version costs 75
but buy today and both versions together
cost just 75 dollars
which offer would you pick
[Music]
here's a new offer the online version
costs 20
and the two versions together cost 75
dollars
what would you choose this time did you
choose the combo the first time
but the online version the second time
yeah you got tricked the first time
your brain made you think you were being
clever by buying both for only 75
dollars
but really the online version is fine
the reason we get tricked is because we
like to compare
values instead of just looking at each
option individually
ella is 28 years old she's single
kind and smart she's always been great
at math
and she majored in economics which one's
probably true about ella
1. ella likes sports 2.
ella likes sports and works as a bank
analyst
[Music]
if you pick two they totally got you if
she majored in economics and is good at
math
she probably does something like that
for a living right
but the second one is way less likely
it's more likely that just one thing is
true about her not two things
even if they make sense in your head
just because you want something to be
true
or think it should be true doesn't mean
it is
you're flipping a coin and you have to
guess heads
or tails you flipped it five times
already
and it's been heads every time what do
you think it's gonna be this time
tails right the problem here is that we
love to look back in time
we think that something that already
happened five times in a row can't
possibly happen again
but sometimes it's not true five times
in a row
or even 100 times it's still just a 50
50 coin toss
do you know why you checked the fridge
10 times a day even though no one went
shopping
it's not because you can't remember
what's in there you do it to check if
your needs have lowered enough already
to eat something that's in there